# Upgrade Guide for v5

The 5.0 release of `NetworkResponseAdapter` is an overhaul of the _internals_ of the library. Most users should be able to update the version number in their dependencies without any other changes.

## Contributors

Huge thanks to community members [Gil Goldzweig](https://github.com/gilgoldzweig) and [Leandro](https://github.com/argenkiwi) for their help with this release.

## Changes

### Breaking

- Removal of deprecated `CoroutinesNetworkResponseAdapterFactory` and `CoroutinesNetworkResponseAdapter` classes.

These classes had been deprecated for a very long time. v5 removes them from the codebase. If you're still using them, please move to `NetworkResponseAdapterFactory` and `NetworkResponseAdapter` classes as a replacement.

### Backward Compatible (Non-Breaking)

- Migration to a sealed interface for the `NetworkResponse` type

Sealed interfaces allow more succinct `when` expressions if you don't care about the specific type of the error.

```kotlin
when (response) {
	is NetworkResponse.Success -> // ...
	is NetworkResponse.Error -> // ...
}
```

You can still access the full range of subtypes if you need to:

```kotlin
when (response) {
	is NetworkResponse.Success -> // ...
	is NetworkResponse.ServerError -> // ...
	is NetworkResponse.NetworkError -> // ...
	is NetworkResponse.UnknownError -> // ...
}
```

!!! attention

    This can be a potentially breaking change if you relied on sealed class specific behaviour of `NetworkResponse`. Most users will not be affected it.

- Bundled Retrofit responses:

`NetworkResponse.Success`, `NetworkResponse.ServerError` and `NetworkResponse.UnknownError` now bundle the original Retrofit response with them (when it is available). This allows you to look at the raw response directly, if needed.

```kotlin
when (networkResponse) {
  is NetworkResponse.Success -> {
    val retrofitResponse = networkResponse.response
  }
}
```

- Tests Overhaul & Migration to Kotest

This PR gets refactors the library's test suite to get rid of redundant and obscure tests, and replaces them with a streamlined test suite focused on publicly exposed functionality.

We've also finally moved away from the deprecated kotlintest artifacts to the new kotest libraries.

- Kotlin 1.6

The library now depends on Kotlin 1.6

- New Sample App

The repository now includes a sample app to demonstrate the usage of this library with Retrofit and the `kotlinx.serialization` library.
